# tetrahedron_test

Test code for results in a couple papers concerned with the constraints on the angles of a tetrahedron. This is related to the Perspective Three-Point Problem. 

Question: Given a fixed triangle in space, when you view its vertices from another point in space, what constraints exist among the angles (α, β and γ) between the rays from the viewing point to the vertices?

This simple question has a surprisingly complicated, yet still tractable (in a sense), answer. The details for the case when the base triangle is acute have been completely worked out. Acute_Triangle_Case.pdf is a fact sheet for this case. For an obtuse base triangle, the story is more complicated, but much progress has been made here too.

The programs tetrahedon_test.cpp and dynamic_test_tetrahedron.cpp test the claims in the fact sheet and in (yet-to-be-published) research papers dealing with the construction of a tetrahedron based on a given acute triangle ABC as a face. The possible interior angles (α, β and γ) at the new vertex P are restricted in various ways, by a system of (conditional) inequalities. For more information, see the fact sheet, the notes at the top of each source code file, and the displayed instructions when the programs are run.

After compiling either program, one can either execute it without command-line parameters, to indicate that ABC should be an equilateral triangle, or else specify three positive integer command-line parameters to indicate the proportions of the interior angles of the triangle ABC. To test an acute base triangle, be sure that each of these numbers does not exceed the sum of the other two. 

A new source code file, dynamic_test_tetrahedron_obtuse.cpp, has been added. It is tailored to better handle an obtuse base triangle, rather than an acute base triangle. The obtuse base triangle case is significantly more complicated than the acute base triangle case, and this is still a work in progress. When executing this program, the three command-line numbers are required, and the first of these must be greater than the sum of the other two. 

Some animated GIFs are also provided here. Four of these GIFs (animated_test__1-4.gif) show examples of executing dynamic_tetrahedon.cpp. Two GIF (animated_test__5-6.gif) shows examples of executing dynamic_tetrahedon_obtuse.cpp. One GIF (spike.gif) shows a 3D image of the bounding region (gray) given by the inequalities in the fact sheet, surrounding some possible (α,β,γ) points (purple), in "view angle space" (coordinates being the "view angles" α, β and γ), for an acute triangle case. Another GIF (cool.gif) shows that by taking four copies of such a "spike," these being rotations of each other, they can be combined to fill out a regular tetrahedron. Two more GIFs (acute.gif and obtuse.gif) show the "discriminant surface" of "Grunert's system of equations," in "cosines space" (the coordinates being the three cosines of the view angles), the first animation being for an acute triangle, and the second being for an obtuse triangle. 
